So with the image preview being displayed, let's work on validating that, we are validating that we
got an image.
Well that's nice but of course it would be nicer if we could also validate that we have a valid image,
so if we have a jpeg or png file let's say and there is no built-in validator that would help us
with that,
so let's write our own one.
I will write it in a separate file here and I'll name it
mime-type.validator.ts, you can name the file however you want,
I just want to make sure that it's clear that this is a validator and I will validate the mime type
of a file here.
Now the mime type validator will have the task of getting the value of a control, which will be a file
of course, then read that using that file reader again and then checking for the mime type of that file.
And we will write the logic for this together,
it's a little bit more complex, a little bit more advanced Javascript
but we'll get there.
So to read this file or to create such a validator,
let's start with that,
I will first of all export a constant because this validator will actually just be a function. All validators
are just functions which read in the control value and return the information whether that is valid or not. I'll name
that mimetype and the name is totally up to you.
Now again, I said it's a function,
so it's an arrow function which looks something like this
and now the question of course is what's the argument? The argument is to control which is of type abstract
control, something you import from @angular/forms.
So we get this control as an argument,
we also have to return something and this will actually be an asynchronous validator because reading
in that file with the file reader is an asynchronous task as you saw there,
we have to register some events which the reader will fire when it's done reading this
in because parsing such a file takes a bit longer
and to not block the Javascript execution, this is handled asynchronously.
Since it's an asynchronous validator, something Angular does support, I have to define a special return
type for this validator function. A normal synchronous validator would simply return a Javascript object
where you have a key value pair with your own error code and then a value for that error code or null.
If a validator returns
null, the value is treated to be valid,
that's important.
Null means valid if you return an object with that error code and that value for the error code,
then this would mean it failed.
Now for an async validator, it's almost the same but that Javascript object with the error code is actually
wrapped by a promise or an observable.
So we either return a promise here or we return an observable here.
Now these are both generic types actually
and the observable is something I need to import first anyways.
So let's import observable from rxjs,
that's that third party package which provides the observable. The promise is a default Javascript type
but as I said, both are generics which means we can be clear about which value they will eventually yield
and for the promise, that will simply be that Javascript object I mentioned and now here comes a strange
notation, where we have any property, so we don't care about the name, we just want to say it should
have a property and we do that with square brackets key of type string.
This just means, hey this will have a property which can be interpreted as a string and we don't care
about the name, the square brackets here don't indicate an array,
they just indicate that this is really dynamic, a dynamic property name.
And then the value of that property will be anything, we can pass any value we want for that error code
and this will become clearer once we do return a value.
And it's the same generic type for the observable,
so let's add it there too.
Now this is our function definition,
we of course get an error because right now we're not fulfilling it,
we aren't returning a promise or an observable,
so let's work on that function body now.
First of all let's extract the file,
so I'll create my file constant and access my control value.
Now I need to tell Typescript that this is a file because it could be anything, we can store anything as
a value,
so now we tell Typescript that this will be a file and then we can use that file reader again.
So file reader is new file reader, we instantiated that a second ago in the last lecture. Now that file
reader can be used to read in that value of the file.
Now I will use a different syntax,
previously what we did is we added file reader and then onLoad.
Now first of all we now need onloadend but still this approach now wouldn't really work
because keep in mind, in this function here, I need to return a promise or an observable.
Now this is neither,
this is synchronous code which just registers a function.
Thankfully, rxjs gives us something which allows us to convert this into an observable,
we can simply create our own observable. To do that,
I will create a new constant and I'll name it
frObs for file reader observable and I will create my own observable by calling observable and there, the
static create method.
With that we can create our own observable from scratch.
Now such an observable takes a function as an argument, that function then again automatically gets
an observer, that's passed in by rxjs and it's of type observer,
you import that from rxjs too. Now that observer simply is a tool you use to control when this
observable emits new data.
So in here in that observable, I can now take my file reader and add an event listener.
There we can listen to the loadend event, that's an equivalent to file reader onloadend. So I'm
creating a listener like this
and here I have another function which will eventually get executed once this is done.
Now we also get that error on the observer because this actually turns out to be a generic type and the
type here actually is exactly the same Javascript object
our whole validator will eventually emit,
so let's add this here as a generic type.
Now back to the event listener, we know that we're done reading in the file here and the difference between
loadend and load really just is that for loadend, it has more information about the file you could say.
So now we have that event listener here and in here, we then basically want to emit a new value with
the information whether we know that this is a valid file or not
and we know it inside this event listener because of that extra information I just mentioned.
Now before we implement this, let's go in the line after add event listener and here, we want to start that
process by using our file reader to actually read in the file
but now not as data URL but as array buffer,
this will then allow us to access the mime type. So now we pass the file there, we read it in as an array
buffer, when it's done add event listener loadend
will actually call this function
and now in this function, we can do the mime type validation.
Let's implement this logic in the next lecture.